h1. smd_token

Public tag to return a cryptographically secure sequence of characters. Very handy for using inside plugins or CSP headers.

h2. Installation / Uninstallation

"Download this plugin":https://github.com/Bloke/smd_token/releases/latest and then paste the code from the .txt file into the Textpattern _Admin->Plugins_ panel, install and enable the plugin. For bug reports, please "raise an issue":https://github.com/Bloke/smd_token/issues.

To uninstall, delete the plugin from the _Admin->Plugins_ panel.

h2. Usage examples

16-character tokens are default, so to immediately return a 16-character randomly-generated token:

bc. <txp:smd_token />

Display a 24-character randomly-generated token:

bc. <txp:smd_token length="24" />

Display a 12-character randomly-generated token with a prefix:

bc. <txp:smd_token length="12" prefix="nonce-" />

THe above example outputs something like @nonce-ab1b7f98175e@.

bc. <txp:smd_token name="my_csp" length="12" prefix="nonce-" />

Outputs a 12-character token with prefix, and stores the token value as 'my_csp' for later use in the same page request. If you don't wish to display the token at this time (e.g. if you're generating it in advance) specify @display="0"@.

To retrieve the previously stored token and display its value:

bc. <txp:smd_token name="my_csp" />

The @length@ is ignored if you retrieve a previously saved token. But the @prefix@ may be altered. Using @display="0"@ in this case is pointless, because you would always need to display a token you've retrieved, but the ability to silence the output is honoured anyway.

To check if a named token has been generated already, use the conditional tag:

bc. <txp:smd_if_token name="my_csp">
    <txp:smd_token name="my_csp" prefix="nonce-" />
<txp:else />
    <txp:smd_token name="my_csp" prefix="nonce-" length="12" />
</txp:smd_if_token>

The @name@ attribute is mandatory. Without it, the tag will always return false.

If used as a single tag, the result will be 1 if the token exists, or empty otherwise.

h2. Author / credits

Written by "Stef Dawson":https://stefdawson.com/contact.